hey you guys what's up my name is April
in case you're new here I'm a certified
personal trainer and certified
nutritionist and I help petite women get
in the best shape of their lives and
just feel strong and confident and
powerful and there are smaller frames I
myself in 5-1 in case you are wondering
that's totally the question I get asked
the most so I am pretty sure but I know
we have lots of women in the short girl
gang community here who are shorter than
me and taller than me if you're
wondering what fits the petite category
it's any woman who is 5'4 and shorter
any body type you can be any shape any
body type it's really just about height
because it's all about metabolism shorty
artists or metabolism you have just
naturally so nice to meet you if you're
new here today I'm really excited I
thought that I would do a video all
about carb cycling we're gonna talk
about why you might want to do this as a
petite woman what the benefits are and I
thought it would be cool to show you
exactly how I implement it like meal by
meal I'm gonna show you guys what a day
of carb cycling looks like for me both a
high carb day and a low carb day and how
you do it also I want to make sure you
guys see like the nitty gritty details
so that you can apply it to your own
life so without further further ado
let's jump into it okay so carb cycling
consists of eating higher carb days and
lower carb days and it usually has to do
with your workout routine so you would
eat the higher carb days on days that
you workout or you train and you need
the lower carb days on your rest days or
your days where you're not going to the
gym and exerting a lot of energy so
before we can get into the reasons why
further you have to understand what
carbs are and why you might want to
cycle them so carbohydrates are the
body's preferred source of energy it's
where we get most of our energy from and
energy is the same as calories our body
prefers to use carbohydrates as energy
because they're the easiest to digest
and sort of break down into the
bloodstream and then use as fuel when
we're doing activities they for that
reason are you know easily digested
quickly
and they caused a spike in insulin which
is a hormone that is a faster inform on
let's break that down even a little bit
further so when you ingest a
carbohydrate which is a sugar by the way
it's all carbohydrates or sugars breaks
down into the bloodstream and because
there are now these sugars just all
throughout your body if you're not going
to put them to use so you're not gonna
start exercising our insulin is gonna
come in insulin levels rise and it's
going to try to clear the sugar out of
your bloodstream and put it into your
energy reserves so here's the thing our
energy reserves are really just not that
large so if you're eating a lot of
carbohydrates in one sitting without
pairing it with a protein or a fad to
slow down the absorption of those sugars
then your body's just gonna sweep all
the blood sugar away and store it
somewhere in the body and the excess
gets stored as fat that's a really
simplified version of it this is
probably why carbs have such a bad rap
but they're not bad you need carbs you
need carbs so much to lose fat to have a
healthy lifestyle to build muscle in the
gym and if you've watched any of my
other videos then you know that building
muscle as petite women is the most
important thing because it helps
increase our lean body mass which helps
speed up the metabolism which helps you
burn more calories at rest which helps
you lose fat in the long run and just
have this life where you're able to burn
calories while you're at the gym or not
just from having a fast metabolism so
carbs are really really important the
whole point of carb cycling is that when
you have higher carb days you're padding
it around your workout so you're really
fueling your workouts with energy and
then you're able to put those carbs to
use towards building muscle instead of
putting you know storing them in your
fat reserves and on lower carb days when
you're not as active and you don't need
the fuel because you're just you know
maybe you're doing an active recovery
day where you just do a little bit of
walking or maybe you're like straight up
sitting at your desk working all day you
don't need the extra carbs at all you're
likely more just to store them so you
just have a lower carb day so in the
past this has been widely used by body
and people more you know who track
calories and macros and are really
intense about their nutrition and their
lifestyle but you can do it too you
don't have to track macros I am tracking
backwards right now because I'm on a
fitness challenge for myself but you
don't have to and I'm gonna show you a
full day of eating both the high carb
day and a low carb day so that you can
see and I'm gonna do the exact same
meals each day so you can just see what
I removed from the meals to make it a
low carb or what I add it to make it
high carb
I think that'll really help just put
this into actual real applicational you
know format instead of just talking
about carb cycling I'm gonna show you
exactly how I do it and another really
important thing about carb cycling is if
your basic understanding of nutrition is
not there carb cycling is not a magic
trick that is going to help you lose fat
just like intermittent fasting and diets
and all of this stuff
nothing is magic here this is like a
cherry on top
after you have spent some time really
understanding basic good nutrition so
eating PFF what I call pfff pfff which
is proteins healthy fats and fibrous
carbs at every meal this keeps your body
in fat-burning mode I also want to note
that herb cycling on your low-carb days
that does not mean that you eat like no
carbs this is not a keto diet this is
not a diet at all this is straight-up
just how to fuel your body more
efficiently for your training days and
then feel your body more efficiently for
recovery days or rest days so at no
point are you should you be starving or
restricting your calories like crazy or
doing keto that's not what this is about
this is simply a sort of an extra tactic
that you can add on to your already
great nutrition to help get that extra
edge on your training performance your
fat loss goals and you know just
optimizing and already really strong
foundation foundations foundation of
foundations that's where you're going to
see the most results carb cycling things
like that these are like fan
little advance tips but I do want to
teach them to you so that you feel like
you have a range of tools and you know
available to you and especially for
petite women this can be super great
tool to use okay so this is the fun part
I'm gonna walk you through two days of
eating my high carb day and my low carb
day and just to repeat this my high carb
day are days and I wait train and I
suggest that you do weight training
strength training as your form of
working out and so you can really put
those calories towards building muscle
and then my low-carb days are days that
I'm resting and I normally just try to
walk a lot do stretches foam roll and
not workout okay so I workout in the
morning so starting with my first meal
of the day I lately have been having a
workout shake and I'm not super hungry
right when I wake up but I don't want to
skip breakfast because I do want to get
those carbs in either before a while I'm
working out to get what's called in this
case if I'm drinking it while I'm
working out it's called intro workout
nutrition or intra nutrition so I have
this shake that I've been loving it's
really simple it's just frozen cherries
half a banana some cacao powder which is
super high in antioxidants and really
healthy for you and I fill it with
almond milk and collagen peptides so
that's my protein powder and I just
blend it up in my bullet and I take it
with me to the gym and that is always
really good workout tool for me
if I'm having a high carb date or a low
carb damn actually not going to change
your first meal of the day because I try
to front-load my calories I still want
to have some good amount of carbs in the
morning whether I'm working out or not I
just still have this I can just keep
this meal the same and it usually works
out fine and it also allows you to just
still have energy in the morning so meal
one doesn't change looks the same for me
all the time you know number two I if
you follow me on Instagram there's no I
do this every day I basically have
Ezekiel bread or I have sprouted bread I
love Dave's killer bread and I have egg
whites with some spinach on top of it
little sea salt or Himalayan pink salt
for some extra vitamins and minerals
that are little muscle minerals in there
and I also have a matcha green tea with
a little bit of almond coffee creamer on
my high carb days this would be my
post-workout meal I make sure I have two
pieces of Dave's killer bread and that's
my additional higher carb right there on
a day where I am having a lower carb day
so I'm not working out I just remove one
piece of bread so I still have the same
meal here just to keep it the same I
just remove a slice of bread I keep the
protein the same you still want to have
high protein on lower carb days and you
want to increase the fats you know have
your healthy fats on every day so I cook
with olive oil for that that's where the
fats come from ok moving into my third
meal I love to have a Greek yogurt with
a little bit of banana kind blueberry
granola some chia seeds and that's it
it's a super easy meal I like it because
I can always take it to go almost
anywhere and it's really easy to eat
so on my high carb day and I am counting
macros so I will measure this out right
now but you can also I ball this with
your own nails and I'll show
how on a high carb day I'll probably
have a little bit more granola and I
will have more banana right those are
the carbs in that meal I keep the
protein the same I usually try to aim
for 20 to 30 grams of protein per meal
so the Greek yogurt is high and protein
naturally so I keep that the same the
chia seeds have a little bit of extra
fiber and fats in them which are great I
keep that the same
and on my low-carb day I will eat half
as much of the carb so I'll you know
instead of going with half a banana
maybe I'll do 1/4 of a banana and a
little bit less granola so maybe I'll
sprinkle it with granola or just have a
smaller handful of granola and that
would be my carb cycling for that meal
on my rest days I also find it's really
helpful to still have treats so I
something I've been doing the last 12
weeks in my personal fit challenge
fitness challenge is just having a 2 by
brownie everyday it's just been like
nice for me and I enjoy it and it keeps
me in this mentality that I'm not
restricting and I still get to enjoy
chocolate and dessert so even on my rest
days which are lower carb I do probably
almost always have a 2-byte brownie
along with that meal and I usually also
have a second matcha in the afternoon
maybe around that time or a couple hours
later as well for my fourth meal if this
is my higher carb day whether this
actually is my higher carb day or my
lower carb day I can eat the same thing
here I'm having a whole wheat tortilla
with some oven roasted chicken I made
myself and I have some part skin monster
all mozzarella cheese that I melt on top
I had some spinach and then the toppings
really helped make it flavorful I was
out of salsa which is super low in
calories and or you know just chopped up
some fresh tomato and I also add some
nonfat Greek yogurt again because it's a
substitute for sour cream it works
really well in these Mexican food you
can always use nonfat Greek yogurt
instead of sour cream and it tastes
pretty much the same at least to me
that's a huge hat for me so that's what
I have as my dinner meal and he's
already sort of low-carb just because
the only carb is really the tortilla
part so I'll have that for dinner
whether that's a low-carb day or a high
carb day that's fine on top of that if
it's a high card day I'm also gonna have
a fifth meal either a shake or I'll have
two extra pieces of bread I could have
an apple which is a carb with some
cutters cheese whatever is happening on
that day I will have a little bit more
so today is a heart high carb day I'm
probably going to just have a couple
extra pieces of Ezekiel or Dave's killer
bread on top of my meal and if I still
feel like I need a little bit more carbs
or I haven't reached my car pool I'll
have some fruit which is a great source
of carbohydrates or some vegetables
however vegetables are really low in
calories so when I'm talking about carbs
I'm mostly talking about your non
fibrous carbs so the more simple
carbohydrates you're you know granolas
and breads and pastas those types of
carbs whether it's a low carb day or
high carb day I still have tons of
vegetables or I try to at least have
spinach and peppers and tomatoes and
just try to mix in some fresh foods as
well so that's how I would change my
carb cycling whether I was resting or
working out it's always a good idea to
try to pad your workout with higher carb
before the workout and after the workout
that'll help you make the most of those
carbohydrates and help you build muscle
and also burn fat and it's important on
your low-carb days I'll also say to make
sure you eat enough fibrous carbs so
more vegetables to really help keep you
full and satiated throughout the day
aren't counting macros and you can dress
trying to carb cycle basically what I
would do is on your high carb days this
is gonna vary for each individual but
you can have a scooped handful of carbs
in every meal and in your low carb days
your rest days you can have half a scoop
cup half a half a cup half of a scoop of
carbs per meal so you're just kind of
cutting the carbs down it does not
actually have the
many carbs in a day it's not that much
it's probably more like maybe a 30
percent reduction in carbs on a rest day
again if the proportions and percentages
don't always scale well up or down so
that's not a perfect percentage but
generally if you're just having a little
bit less carbs on days you're not
working out it will help you with your
fat loss it can help you kind of get
over our plateau if all the other
foundational aspects of your health and
fitness routine are in place if you're
already lifting weights if you're you
know drinking three liters two to three
liters of water a day if you're already
eating a high-protein diet and getting
enough sleep and nutrition carb cycling
is an additional thing you can add that
can help you get that edge so I hope you
guys loved this video please give it a
like if you enjoyed it hey you guys as
me and my team we're adding this I
completely forgot I don't know how but I
forgot to update you guys on the fact
that pettite power program is open for
literally only a few more days we open
it on Saturday we've been at full
capacity not taking new members for two
months and we are taking new members now
so if you don't know petite power is my
12-week fitness and nutrition program
for petite women 5 foot 4 and shorter
it's nutrition fitness we have coaches
on staff registered dietitian and myself
coaching been running this program for
over a year now
and over 100 other petite women have
gone through the program it's amazing
I'll leave it at that but if you would
like to join us for a March session the
link to join is below and if you would
like to learn more about what it's about
learn more about like you know my
philosophy all that stuff that I did
host a free training on Saturday and I'm
gonna put the link to watch the replay
below so that's if you want more info
you want to like hang out learn some
more stuff there's a lot of info in
there that you can watch so I am so
excited to invite you guys to come join
me it's gonna be incredible there is a
lot of one-on-one elements to it
email check-ins group calls so much
accountability and of course a bomb-ass
program to follow that will get you
amazing results so if you have trouble
applying everything
that I tell you on YouTube this is your
chance to get that help so yeah I hope
you guys have a great day and back to
the YouTube video let me know what
questions you have about carb cycling
below we'd love to answer them for you
let me know if you what you think about
this video if you would do it if you
have done it what your results were and
if you have done it and you struggled
with it what did you struggle with it's
like I would love to hear your thoughts
below and be sure to subscribe for more
content to tell or to petite women and
thanks you guys I will see you next week
bye
[Music]